# Capture_Window_Around_Particle

This project is the one accomplished by me while doing a Student Assistant Job in Leibniz-Institut für Werkstofforientierte Technologien (IWT) Universität Bremen.

In this project, single droplet of a liquid is dropped into a chamber where it is exposed to flame. This flame surrounds the droplet and droplet burns while moving. The whole process is captured in a video by a high speed camera which is provided in this repository with the name “Original_Video.avi”. My task in this project was to track the droplet and provide a surrounding window of specified size around droplet throughout the time. It means that I must crop a part of each frame of video and save it in a separate directory.

So, first of all, I separated the frames of the video “Original_Video.avi” and saved those in a folder named “images”. After that threshold operation is performed on each frame and each threshold image is saved in a separate folder named “threshold_images”. A video has been constructed using these threshold frames to quick check the effect of change of threshold parameters. This video is saved with the name “Threshold_Video.avi” also provided in this repository. Then centre point of the droplet is found in each threshold frame. Corresponding to that centre point, a surrounding window of specified size is captured in original image and saved in the folder “final_images”. As a result, the folder “final_images” contains the surrounding window around droplet in each frame of “Original_Video.avi”.

Since video provided here contains 294 frames, therefore, there are 294 images in each folder “images”, “threshold_images” and “final_images”. Since its useless to provide all the images therefore 5 images from each folder are provided here in this repository. It is possible that, due to threshold problems, droplet is not detected in some frames. The code does not provide the surrounding window for those frames because there is no centre point around which window could be captured. It must be mentioned here that, for bigger window size, it might become impossible to capture a surrounding window around droplet in first and last few frames. For example, it can be seen in “Original_Video.avi” that droplet appears from right side where it is very much close to image border. In this case, it is not possible to capture a surrounding window because it goes outside of the bounds of image. The code is intelligent enough to start capturing the window from first possible frame depending on the size of window specified by user.
